A year ago I took an hour to create an automatic invoice automation in Make. Configuring modules, connecting APIs, debugging errors, and here it is, almost an hour full. A month ago, building the same automation in N8n took me 40 minutes. And yesterday with Cloud Code it was 2 minutes, literally. I just described what I wanted and built it. And this is not because I am smarter or faster, but because the tools evolved. And today I'm going to show you exactly what changed in the world of automation and where the trend is going. But before we get into it, I want to make something very clear. Our promise or the promise we have on this channel is not to teach you to use N8n, it is not to teach you to use Make, nor to teach you to use any specific tool. Our promise is to show you the fastest method so that you can reach your goals. And that method is constantly changing. Two years ago the method was Zapier, then we went to Make, then to N8n. 

Today they are the agents in Cloud Code and maybe tomorrow what are you going to do? For this reason, I am not married to any tool and you should not be either. Because what makes you really so valuable is not knowing how to use N8n to perfection, but being able to identify a problem and find the best way to solve it. And that's exactly what we're going to see today. In this video I'm going to show you first the real evolution of automation tools. How we went from programming in Python to dragging boxes in Make to even today just talking to an agent. Second, I'm going to show you demos side by side. I'm going to show you the same automation that I created in Make, in N8n and in Cloud Code. All so you can see this process and the difference with your own eyes. Third, we are going to talk about what this means for you, for your career, for your projects and how you should be thinking about automation. And fourth, I'm going to show you the current ecosystem of agent tools today. Which ones do I use, when do I use each one and which ones do I recommend according to your goals and what you want to do. 

So stay until the end because this is really going to change your perspective. Before we get into the demos, I want to give you context. Because if you don't understand where we come from, you won't be appreciating where we are going and where we are currently. We are going to make a quick trip through automation, but don't worry because I'm not going to take you back to the industrial revolution. But we are going to see the four main stages that brought us here. The first era is pure code. This is the era of Python, JavaScript, scripts that ran with crons, and if you wanted to automate something, you had to know how to program. There was no other option. You wrote a script, ran it on a server, and the crons were running constantly. to run every hour and you had to pray that things don't fall. It worked, but you needed to be a programmer and the entry barrier was very high. Then came the second one, the visual no code. In this Zapier was the first. 

Suddenly you could be connecting different applications, dragging boxes and creating things like when an email arrives, register it in this database. All without writing a line of code. This was revolutionary because it was designed for the common user and the entry barrier dropped drastically because you didn't have to know how to program or the raw part of programming. Then came Integromat, which is now Make, which in my opinion was a little more powerful than Zapier because it was much more flexible, but in the end they had the same idea, to connect applications visually. The problem was that you were still limited, so the tools allowed you to do so. And if you wanted to do something more complex and enter another area of more personalized development. Also, Zapier charged you for each task and your prices were shot at the end to the clouds. And this is where N8n came in and broke it. Because N8n in the end gave you the best of both worlds. On the one hand you had the visual interface that Make had, which was quite friendly, but with the flexibility of being able to write code when you need it. 

Add to that that it was also open source and open source code and that you could host it on your own computer or on your own servers, so a fairly large community was created around it and with fair reason. But still you had to understand how it worked, what the nodes are, what the logic is, the variables that are in play, how we map different variables, what an endpoint is, what an API is, what a webhook is. And it was much more accessible in the end than programming, but it was not something trivial. What leads us to the fourth era, which is where we are today, the autonomous agents. google's cloud code, antigravity, cursor, and even Moldbot are tools where you are no longer programming, you are no longer dragging boxes and connecting one by one, but you simply describe what you want and the agent starts to execute it and start to build it for you. i want an automation that receives Telegram audio, transcribes them and creates invoices automatically. And people do it, generate code, generate workflow, connect everything. 

Sometimes they create their own servers, sometimes they connect to other external servers and create them, for example, in N8n. And we're also going to see that later on. And believe me, your head is going to fly. My point is that you're seeing the pattern here, each era decreases the technical barrier and what used to take you days, then it took you hours, then it took you minutes, because the technical barrier is decreasing and it is becoming more accessible in the different eras. And this has a very important implication in what we are going to discuss at the end, and that is that the value is no longer in knowing how to use a tool, the value is in knowing what problem we are solving, because the implementation is already becoming something trivial. But before showing you that, let's see this in action. 

This is an automation where I sent an audio in specific, a text, transcribed, took out the information, defined whether there was a client or not, searched the client, created the client, created the invoice, transformed it into a PDF and finally ended up sending an email to the client. This generated this invoice type that reached the inbox of each of the people. A fairly simple invoice. Simple in concept, not so simple in execution. Look at the automation here. How long did it take me to build each of the nodes? Here I received the information, we classified if it was a client, not a client, if it was to create an item, a product. So look at the amount of time it took us to configure each of these nodes by hand. For someone who is starting, it is quite intimidating. For someone who already knows, it is quite tedious. But that was the state of art until a year ago. 

Again, last year, 2025. This was the state of art. Now we go with exactly the same case, an automatic billing system, but created in N8N. For this one, I was already creating and copying JSONs, that is, we were talking to the IA that created the basic JSONs that we were doing and the logic was the same. Look, we had create product, create client, create invoice. If you look closely, it's quite similar to this and creating it all step by step, also filling in each of the variables, was the same. The logic was the same. I received a Telegram audio, then downloaded the audio, transcribed it, classified it. If we wanted to create a client, create a product, create an invoice and then we started running each of these. Again, I had to fill everything and do everything manually. Enter n8n and start filling each of the variables again. 

And again Gemini generated the JSON, I just got here, copied and pasted them and we also completely assisted ourselves with artificial intelligence. But he still lacked something, he was not agentic, he was not able to arrive and execute for me. What changed? Well, now we could do debugging with artificial intelligence, but we still had to continue understanding the logic of N8n and what it was doing. So it was hybrid, it was half human, half IA, but the jump we wanted to take and the one we had just reached was still not over. Ok, now comes the good stuff, what brought you here. I'm going to show you how I do this today without Make, without N8n, without doing it manually and without copying and pasting Jasons. Remember that all this N8n automation is a JSON. If I copy it, I write docsnew and paste it, it's nothing more than a JSON. 

This is what I just copied, literally copy paste, only here it is visualized in a nicer way. Now I'm going to show you how I do it and how it's going to start to be. I'm going to go into VS Code here. VS Code is just a nicer way to see your terminal. I'm going to open a folder where I have Cloud Code, specifically with two libraries installed from N8n, and I'm going to give it basically the same requirement of what it had or what it wanted. An automation of billing that receives audio and then classifies and orders them. But instead of setting up the workflow, I'm going to let Cloud do it. Create an automation in my instance of 8N that receives a message from Telegram. If it's audio, transcribe it, classify if I want to create a client, create a product or create an invoice and execute the corresponding action using Google Sheets for the database and Google Docs for the invoice templates. Now look at what it's doing. It's thinking about the structure, it's thinking about the nodes. 

And look here, it's designing the structure, creating the workflow, adding logic, implementing the classification with IA, and configuring the routes for each of the actions. If you look here, it creates a small diagram which is quite similar to the one we had previously created, but manually, a vertical one. This one that happened to us is horizontal. And look at that, not only did it create the workflow and gave us a diagram here of how it is working, but if we now enter the N8n workflows and update, we will see that this automation that is Here, if you look closely, it is quite similar to the one we had previously created. Look, here we have the audio, which is the stage of transcribing audio, which is exactly the same, in fact, using the same nodes. Classify the intention. Here we also have the classification of the intention. And look, we have the options of saving client, saving product, saving invoice, which are exactly the same here. 

Where the only difference was that I decided to send the messages above in each of the cases, while Cloud decided to unify later and only send a message that is even more practical. I told him to create notes for me in the automation of what needs to be replaced. and if I reload the automation now, we know what we have to do exactly. configure Telegram, create a new credential, etc. and if there is something I didn't like about this, I can just go back here. i also want him to notify me by mail and generate an HTML report of what was done and send it to my email, benja imperio digital. also, change the OpenAI Transcriber by one from Google. and now we update N8n and we give it to order here. Let's see that the option to transcribe the audio has changed now with Google Gemini and then it generates the HTML report and sends it to us. and sends it directly to the email we had posted. I'm not going to go into much more detail because I literally cover it in a whole video here, but my point is that it took us two minutes. 

I didn't have to know the syntax of n8n, I didn't have to manually map the variables, I didn't have to think about how to structure the nodes, I just had to take my time thinking about how I can describe my problem in the most efficient way to Cloud Code. And this is the paradigm shift I told you about at the beginning. The value is no longer in knowing how to implement, but in knowing implementar? Porque el se volviendo algo trivial. El se comoditizando, por decirlo. Comoditizando. Pero con eso. El se comoditizando y el es lo que tenemos que saber y lo que no va a cambiar, que es el criterio que vamos a tener. Lo que nos lleva a la siguiente parte. What tools exist today? Because you've already seen the power of this, but maybe there's a part of you who is wondering, well, what do we have available? And I'm going to give you briefly my current stack, the tools that I use when I use each one and my honest recommendation. 

Remember that this can change over time. But let's start with the most powerful of all, which is Cloud Code. My go -to is this, it is literally the one I use the most. This is based on the terminal, that is, it is executed directly on your computer. or on some other computer, it's usually on yours, and runs from the command line. It doesn't have a nice graphic interface, in fact, it looks something like this, that's why I prefer to run it from VS Code, which is a nicer way to see the terminal, but it's incredibly powerful. I use it to build automations like the one you just saw, create the most complex systems, to write code, to write scripts, to solve technical problems, I literally use it for everything, because it has access to my computer files, And that's one of the great advantages, because I can start creating files, modifying them, changing their name, running one from one side to the other. I can execute commands. So it's like having a that is constantly on your side. If you want to learn to use it again, you can watch this video where I explain it in a pretty simple way. Then we have Cursor. 

Cursor is another tool that works in a similar way because in the end it is a complete IDE with VS Code at the end, but it also has integrated IDE and there are people who prefer it over Cloud Code. It also works pretty well and you can achieve quite similar things. If you already program, Cursor is really incredible. If you don't program yet, maybe Cloud Code is a better starting point. Then we have Antigravity, which is a developed by Google. This one also came and broke the internet because it is very agent and it is very visual. It works quite similar to Cloud Code, you can use it both in a web environment and in a local environment, that is, download the application here, have access to some files. The interesting thing is that you can start running different artificial intelligence models. You can be using the Gemini models, you can be using the cloud models and it is really very, very good and has very good integrations with MSP, just like Cloud Code, because well, in the end the MSP were developed by Anthropic and then implemented and used by all the rest. 

But Antigravity is with everything and in fact we have a course dedicated within the digital empire to only the vibe coding with Antigravity, where we launch and deploy two projects from scratch. And finally we have Cloudbot or Moldbot. This uses it a little more as a personal assistant, more than for serious development. You can install it on your computer or on a VPS and you can ask it things from anywhere, from your cell phone, from your computer, from anywhere. The interesting thing is that it also connects to a lot of tools and has a very integrated system. It is also quite interesting that it is completely open source. And look, Cloudbot or Moldbot in the end has its fame. Yes, there are people who have had serious security problems because they do not do a correct installation. And I really understand it. The big problem is that they display this on a VPS, that is, on a server that is far away with a public address and then anyone can enter because they do not take the appropriate security measures. 

What they have to do is install a Tailwind, which is a privatization of one of these domains, and create a kind of tunnel or connection between your computer and the server so that the rest of the people and attackers can't enter. If you're interested, I also have a video on this channel of how we can do this installation in a completely safe way. And the key point here is not that you use exactly the same tools as me. The point is that you understand that there are different options for different things. I'm not married to any and if something better than Cloud Code comes out tomorrow, I'll probably start using it and I'll show you. Because the key in the end is not going to be to make a machine in Cloud Code, but to be able to identify what problems I really need to solve with Cloud Code. Because tomorrow the technical part is going to be more obsolete. And although today I don't have the technical part, maybe imposing a bit of prompts and a good conversation with an AI, I'm going to be able to solve it. But one has to be able to bet where the millionaire idea is, where that criterion is at the end. 

Ok, you've seen the demos, you've seen the tools. Now let's talk about what this really means for you. Because in the end, if you just take it that Cloud Code is cool, Cloud Code is cool, you are completely losing the point. The point is that the technical barrier is going down and it will continue to go down. Look, I said this several months ago in another video. I predicted that the technical implementation was starting to become trivial and look, here we are. And I'm going to give you an analogy that really helped me a lot to understand this and I like it a lot. Look, let's stop for a moment and think about cars. At first, to have a car, you needed to know mechanics. You had to understand how the engine works, how to fix it when it breaks and the entry barrier was very high. Today anyone can drive, because you don't really need to understand how the engine works, you just need to know where you want to go. With automation, it's happening today the same. Before you needed to know the mechanics, the code, the APIs, the webhooks, the endpoints. And today you just need to know where you want to go. 

Because your value in the end is not today in knowing perfectly n8n. It will be in identifying what problems are worth solving and how we are going to raise that problem to solve it. So what can we do with all this information? First, don't get married with a tool because what is working today can be obsolete in a few months. So, stay flexible. Second, start thinking about systems and asking yourself problems. What processes are repetitive? What is taking more time? How could you systematize all this? What are the friction points? Third, experiment with new tools. Don't be afraid. Try Cloud Code. Try anti -gravity, try whatever comes out. As you get to know more tools, the better you will be able to choose which is the correct tool for each problem. And fourth, focus on the value. The value is going up the ladder because it is no longer knowing how to configure nodes in N8n, it is knowing how to identify what problems you are having and your bottlenecks and how to implement a system to solve them. Because the tools will continue to change and your ability to adapt is what is really worth. So let's recap what we saw today. 

We saw the evolution of automation from pure code to no code to low code to autonomous agents. We saw side by side the same automation that we created in Make. Then we took a little less time in N8N and we saw how we are creating it today with Cloud Code. We saw the current ecosystem of agent tools and we talked about what this means or what direct implications this has for you. Implementation is becoming somewhat trivial, it is beginning to become more comfortable. Why does that word cost me so much? to make yourself comfortable and your ability to adapt to that is what really makes you valuable. And for the same reason, if you are interested in deepening this, we have the Imperio Digital community. There we are sharing workflows ready to arrive and use, real -use cases of automations that are working, 24 /7 support when something doesn't work, problem solving in live sessions, 4 weekly sessions and in the end everything we need to go from the idea to implementation. The link to the community can be found below in the description. And now I would like to know a little more about your opinion. 

I would like to know what you think, what you are seeing, what you thought of this video and where you think it's going. One of the great things that nourish us in the end to keep us informed is this interaction in community, so I recommend that you go down to the comments and start interacting. Subscribe if you want to stay up to date with artificial intelligence and automation. And if you liked this video, I strongly recommend that you watch this video that appears here. See you soon. 

